Use plain language (#138)
devfile/devfile-web: libs/docs/src/docs/no-version/what-is-a-devfile.md

description: What is a devfile
---

> `devfile.yaml` describes how to configure and run build environment for
> your project in a development container. You can create devfile from scratch or
> adopt existing from [public community registry](https://registry.devfile.io/viewer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The devfile, `devfile.yaml`, describes how to configure and run your workspace under a Kubernetes environment using a development container. You can create devfile workspace from scratch or adopt existing boilerplate devfile stack from the [public community registry](https://registry.devfile.io/viewer).
```

Author: The line is too long to see the diff.

Author: @michael-valdron the formatting is better, but the definition of "workspace" is vague. The descriptions fits the example on how to run VSCode session in Kubernetes cluster, which is not the case. It is not what is the difference between "devfile" and "devfile workspace" here..

Also it looks like it is impossible to use devfile without Kubernetes. Not sure if that's the case.

> Certain build tools and IDEs can automatically process the devfile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Certain developer tools and IDEs can automatically process the devfile
```

Author: As I understand it, the `devfile` specified how to build the project, so I guess the developer tool should be a tool that is able to build it. Plain `podman` won't be enough.

Reviewer: > As I understand it, the `devfile` specifies how to build the project, so I guess the developer tool should be a tool that is able to build it. Plain `podman` won't be enough.

@abitrolly  I corrected to developer tool because I consider consumer applications such as odo and Eclipse Che to be closer to that (Eclipse Che being an IDE), these do more than just building the project, with the devfile you can spec it to configure Che how to open up and use the workspace, you can also configure the devfile to define how Che or odo runs the commands you need for your workspace, even set init containers if needed.

Build tools are more like maven that focuses more on what to specific project needs to build such as setting the stack version and defining the dependencies of the project. You can use a devfile to use the build tools for the stack being used for the project, e.g. defining the maven commands to run in the developer container.

Author: I feel like the best here is to link "Certain tools" to a page describing what are the tools, what they do and what do they need the `devfile` for. Otherwise it is again too general to be useful.

Author: [Tools that support `devfile`](https://devfile.io/docs/2.3.0/developing-with-devfiles#tools-that-provide-devfile-support) can automatically configure, build, and run an application from a development project. They can, for example:

Sounds better? Also removes the need in the next sentence,

> to configure and build a running application from a development project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to configure, build, and deploy an application from a development project.
```

Author: I am pretty sure application deployment is out of devfile responsibility. For proper deployment, one need stuff like Ansible and OpenTofu.

Reviewer: > I am pretty sure application deployment is out of devfile responsibility. For proper deployment, one need stuff like Ansible and OpenTofu.

@abitrolly  Not entirely true, there might be a misunderstanding here between the deployment environments, i.e. staging, production, and what I mean which is a development live deployment a developer uses to see the applied changes.

For some consumers there are features perform a simple application deploy, e.g. when you run `odo deploy`, though most production system do use technologies as the ones you are mentioning.

Author: If it is impossible to choose where and how to deploy, then it is not deployment. Running application in containers with `docker-compose` is not deployment. Using Ansible to setup `docker-compose` on remote server and update application there is deployment.

Author: Applied. Although if the "devfile" role is to help build and reload application automatically while editing, then the former text better reflects it.

> Using devfile, the tools and IDE can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using devfile, the tools or IDE can:
```
